# Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Statement

last updated: April 11, 2023

## Overview

We value and honor the uniqueness of each individual and embrace diverse
backgrounds and viewpoints. We aim to prepare students, postdocs, and
visiting scholars for their future as scientists and citizens in an
equitable, inclusive, multicultural society.

This statement is intended as a living document, to be collectively
reviewed and improved upon by the members of the lab over time.

## Values

Our lab holds diversity, equity, and inclusion as core values and is
committed to upholding them. Dimensions of diversity include, but are
not limited to, race, ethnicity, sexuality, gender identity,
socioeconomic background, national or cultural origins, religion,
political beliefs, different abilities, neurodiversity, and lifestyle.
We will not tolerate any type of discrimination or bigotry.

We believe that supporting diversity, equity, and inclusion is an active
process that requires continuous, intentional commitment to promote a
healthy work environment and to enable success of our team members and
of our collective scientific mission.

We believe that our differences provide an opportunity to accelerate
advances and innovations in science by bringing diverse perspectives,
talents, approaches, and dialogue to solving key problems. Individual
scientists have biases (scientific, cultural, political, economic,
esthetic, etc.), and these biases infiltrate our work. Only by
supporting a diverse set of perspectives can we hope to overcome these
individual biases, together. Our research is empowered and strengthened
by our diversity.

## Actions

We pledge to support diversity, equity, and inclusion through the
following set of actions:

-   We listen to and think deeply about the people around us and
    actively cultivate a sense of empathy by considering the world
    through their points-of-view. We promote a culture of
    open-mindedness, compassion, and inclusiveness among all team
    members by welcoming persons from all nations and backgrounds, and
    by supporting one another in our science and community needs.

-   We engage in inclusive, active, and individualized learning and
    mentoring. Just as the Institute for Systems Biology (ISB) strives
    to integrate personalized approaches into our healthcare, we strive
    to build adaptive/personalized approaches to STEM education and
    training.

-   We strive to employ direct communication, with a particular focus on
    strengthening our collective abilities to give and receive candid
    feedback.

-   We understand that when individuals come from different backgrounds,
    they bring different ideas and perspectives. We will be considerate
    of and supportive of those perspectives while also sharing our own
    culture and values.

-   We promote cultural, personal, and individual expression that
    contribute to meaningful interaction and dialogue, which help to
    build a welcoming, educational, and understanding community that is
    culturally informed.

-   We engage in outreach and community involvement, including K-12
    curriculum development with [[ISB
    Education]{.underline}](https://isbscience.org/education/) and
    Washington State Public Schools, the [[ISB summer internship
    program]{.underline}](https://isbscience.org/about/careers/internships/),
    and [UW 499 Undergraduate research
    program](https://www.washington.edu/undergradresearch/).

-   We acknowledge the existence of our unconscious biases and strive to
    identify and overcome them. [[Check out this resource, designed to
    help you understand your own unconscious
    biases]{.underline}](https://implicit.harvard.edu/implicit/takeatest.html).

-   We will always do our best to be kind and generous, and to
    acknowledge that we are fallible beings who will make mistakes that
    we will try to correct and learn from.

-   We will strive to educate ourselves about DEI, and through our
    informed actions, to be part of the solution to promote DEI at ISB,
    in science and in society.

-   We have an open-door policy and Naeha is happy to discuss any
    feedback or concerns regarding DEI with anyone.

## Land Acknowledgement

We acknowledge that we are on the traditional, unceded land of the
Coastal Salish people, including the Duwamish People past and present.
We honor with gratitude the land itself and the Duwamish Tribe. This
acknowledgement does not take the place of authentic relationships with
indigenous communities, but serves as a first step in honoring the land
we are on. [[Here is a resource that allows you to find out more about
the native/indigenous peoples who reside/resided in your
area]{.underline}](https://native-land.ca/).

## Resources

Below are some key resources and information:

-   Institute for Systems Biology [[Core
    Values]{.underline}](https://isbscience.org/about/core-values-goals/)

-   Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion [[Resources at the University of
    Washington]{.underline}](https://www.washington.edu/diversity/)

-   [[Washington STEM]{.underline}](https://washingtonstem.org/)

-   Women Who
    Code: [[Seattle]{.underline}](https://www.womenwhocode.com/seattle)

-   Reading List: [[\"The Fire Next Time\", by James
    Baldwin]{.underline}](https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/7753/the-fire-next-time-by-james-baldwin/), [[\"A
    Lab of One\'s Own: One Woman\'s Personal Journey Through Sexism in
    Science\", by Dr. Rita Colwell and Sharon Bertsch
    McGrayne]{.underline}](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781501181276), [[reading
    list]{.underline}](http://merenlab.org/2020/10/05/reading-list/) curated
    by the Meren Lab, [Hidden Figures by Margot Lee
    Shetterly](https://bookshop.org/p/books/hidden-figures-the-american-dream-and-the-untold-story-of-the-black-women-mathematicians-who-helped-win-the-space-race-margot-lee-shetterly/6435103?ean=9780062363602)

-   Viewing list: [Picture a
    Scientist](https://www.pictureascientist.com/) directed by Ian
    Cheney & Sharon Shattuck, [The Evolution and Meanings of Human Skin
    Color by Nina
    Jablonski](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sc4OFcT5m1Y), [Hidden
    Figures](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt4846340/) directed by Theodore
    Melfi

-   [[Contact the Subramanian
    Lab]{.underline}](https://subramanian.isbscience.org/contact/)

*This document was adapted from a similar document originally written
by [[Ashley
Shade]{.underline}](https://ashley17061.wixsite.com/shadelab/dei) and
updated by [Sean
Gibbons](https://github.com/Gibbons-Lab/manuals-and-policies/blob/master/diversity_equity_and_inclusion.md).*
