# Trainee Orientation Document

author: Naeha Subramanian

last updated: April 12, 2023

## Overview

It is my responsibility to provide you with the resources, mentoring and
support you need to carry out and publish high-quality research and
assist you in achieving your career goals. I am here to serve you and
help you be the best version of yourself.

It is your responsibility to be passionate about your work and advance
your career by doing the best, most reproducible science possible.

Every person and every project has different needs that change over
time. Please keep me updated on your scientific and personal
aspirations. If you need anything (a piece of equipment, more time with
me, collaborators, etc.), ask and I'll do my best to provide.

## My responsibilities and traits

In addition to the above:

-   My main role is to keep everyone happy, productive, and funded. I
    will work with everyone to deliver this. If a member is
    systematically lacking either of them despite our best efforts, I
    will also do my best to help them find a better place.

-   I will have a 1:1 meeting with you every week, however you are free
    to walk into my office anytime outside of this time if you have a
    question or want to ask, or show me something in the middle of an
    experiment or analysis. I will always have time for you. If I am in
    a meeting or doing something that takes lots of concentration I will
    signal so and come and find you as soon as possible.

-   I will do my best to find exciting projects for each one of you,
    provide you with the resources and mentoring to execute them, and
    involve you with collaborative projects that you may contribute to
    based on your skill set and level of interest. However, I will not
    enlist anyone for any project without first probing their level of
    interest and availability.

-   I will support your career development by introducing you to other
    researchers in the field, promoting your work at talks, letting you
    attend conferences as finances permit, and helping you prepare for
    the next step of your career, whether it's a post-doc, a faculty
    job, or a job outside of academia.

-   I am not a micro-manager, and I will not excessively manage anyone
    unless they specifically ask for it. I want you to think
    independently and critically, and eventually evolve into a scientist
    capable of independent decision making. However, I will not be
    absent either: I will be around as much as I can, and make sure I
    attend to everyone\'s needs (e.g. providing feedback on project
    ideas, conference posters, talks, manuscripts, figures, grants) as
    quickly as I can.

-   The synergy in the lab is more critical to me than one person's
    productivity. Therefore, I will take everyone\'s opinion into
    consideration before accepting a new member to the group (except
    rotation students, interns, and visiting scientists with short
    planned stays).

## Lab culture and expectations

Please help me create and maintain a vibrant research environment that
is intellectually stimulating, rigorous, productive, collaborative, fun,
emotionally supportive, and conducive to learning and personal growth.
This will allow each of us to become not only better scientists, but
also better citizens.

Many things in this section are open to discussion. There can be
exceptions; we just need to talk about them first. It is our best
interest to avoid not delivering something from this list systematically
and quietly.

-   Maintain the highest level of scientific integrity (it's OK to make
    mistakes \-- honesty will *always* be rewarded)

-   Be willing and available to assist other members in the lab in both
    formal and informal ways and solicit help from me or other lab
    members if you are stuck.

-   Give lab members ample credit when it comes to acknowledgements or
    authorships on papers (always err on the side of generosity)

-   Actively participate in lab meetings. Present when it is your turn
    during our lab meeting, and attend each presentation to listen to
    others. For paper discussions, come to lab meeting having read the
    paper and prepared with comments and questions to contribute.

-   Present a Research in Progress (RIP) seminar at ISB and UW Dept. of
    Immunology once a year. Additionally, be there to support your
    colleagues at their presentations.

-   Attend talks at UW and ISB, especially the Immunology faculty
    seminars (Immun 573) and ISB's institutional guest seminars. Do this
    regardless whether you think it is relevant and worth for your time,
    especially if you are a PhD student or a postdoc. Even the talks
    that seem to be least relevant to you will play a role in your
    progress by helping you develop a broader vision. This will also
    make you a good citizen of our institute and department.

-   Be regular in attendance. This is critical for the group's synergy
    and for the personal development of everyone (family must come first
    and life events take priority). Each member represents a significant
    fraction of our group. For this reason, we aspire to be around
    regularly to maximize our time together. Being in lab is a good way
    of learning from others, helping others, building camaraderie,
    having fast and easy access to resources and people you need, and
    being relatively free from distractions at home (e.g., your bed or
    Netflix). As a guideline, we agree to be in the lab between 9 am and
    5 pm (or 10 am and 6 pm) every non-holiday week day. There are
    always exceptions and these times are not written on stone.
    Depending upon your role and project (computational, experimental,
    managerial) remote work (1-2 days a week or as needed) is okay. Keep
    me apprised of your schedule. Regardless of your role, my primary
    concern is that you get your work done and I will never keep tabs on
    your time as long as you are making good progress and being
    productive.

-   Be responsive on email and/or Slack during work hours (except when
    on vacation, maternity/paternity leave, or sick leave).

-   Follow and efficiently use the lab calendar.

-   Be on time for your meetings and commitments: respect that others
    have packed days and everyone's time is valuable. Give sufficient
    heads-up if you need to reschedule.

-   Become an expert of the lab's literature and the literature in your
    specific area of research. I expect you to know what the lab has
    published, and actively read and master the literature relevant to
    your work.

-   Familiarize yourself with the lab's IACUC (Institutional Animal Care
    and Use Committee), BSC (Biological Safety Committee) and BUA
    (Biological Use Authorization) protocols. Never perform any
    experiments involving animals or biological agents without first
    checking that they are approved on the lab's protocols. When in
    doubt feel free to ask me.

-   Reach out to me when you need help. In addition to technical and
    intellectual difficulties, science life can have steep ups and
    downs. Even when you are excellent at what you are doing and on the
    right track, doubts can be quite challenging to overcome. I wish you
    to let me know if you are going through a rough patch. Check out
    [Uri Alon's TED talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F1U26PLiXjM)
    about the scientific process, its triumphs and challenges.

-   Don't overwork. Look out for your mental health and take time to
    cultivate your life outside of work. Academic life can be stressful.
    Arrange vacation time. Keep me in the loop if you feel burnt out.

## Commitment to excellence

Hold yourself to the highest standards in terms of reproducibility,
innovation, and clarity. With gentleness and compassion, hold other lab
members to these standards as well. Let's work together to produce high
quality science that our colleagues can look up to.

## Meetings

Besides the group meetings, every member will at least have a 1-hour
slot per week to have a private meeting with me. Unless I am traveling
or sick, this is time reserved for you. During the times of travel, I
will do my best to meet you through Skype if you are willing. The
purpose of these meetings is to review the state of your research,
discuss new data or ideas, think through troubleshooting and bottlenecks
if any, prioritize experiments or analyses for the coming week(s), and
broadly make sure that your project(s) is on track. Depending upon
several factors, sometimes these meetings will be very short and
sometimes we will need the entire hour. My goal is not to burden you
with meetings however I would like to stay apprised of your progress. If
you'd like a formal meeting schedule beyond this period of time or
occasionally reschedule or skip a meeting, let me know.

We will meet formally once a year to touch base on your progress and
plans. My objective with these meetings is to make sure you are
effectively working towards your career goals. When the time comes for
you to start looking for another position, we can discuss how to put
together your application and how to best highlight your strengths.

## Timelines and productivity

**Postdocs:** I expect that you have at least 3 full years where
research in this lab is your primary focus (this can vary slightly
depending upon whether you are experimental or computational). I expect
that you will have at least 1-2 first-author manuscripts submitted
before moving on to your next position.

Most postdocs should apply for at least one fellowship at the beginning
of their time in the lab. While the likelihood of winning a fellowship
is low, the effort required for fellowship applications is minimal
compared to the potential gains. They look great on a resume and will
help demonstrate your ability to win independent funding. And if you get
them, you'll be helping out the entire lab as well as yourself (because
you'll free up funds previously allocated to you). If you are interested
in gaining grant writing experience, please let me know and we can
discuss proposal opportunities.

Realize your maximum potential. I believe in the great things that you
will do in the lab and beyond. I would not have invited you to join if I
did not. Take this opportunity to develop your own independent line of
research if you feel that long-term academic research is your calling.

**Graduate Students:** I expect that you have at least 3-5 full years
where research in this lab is your primary focus. I expect that you will
have at least 1 first-author manuscript published and others submitted
before moving on to your next position. We should meet 1-2 years before
your estimated graduation date to discuss your next career stage so that
we can secure an optimal situation for you after you graduate.

Most graduate students should apply for at least one fellowship at the
beginning of their time in the lab. Once you are 1-2 years in and have
preliminary data, applying for a F31 is a great option. It's a valuable
experience, and best to get it early. As stated above, the likelihood of
winning a fellowship is low, but the effort required for fellowship
applications is minimal compared to the potential gains. If you are
interested in gaining grant writing experience, please let me know and
we can discuss proposal opportunities.

Graduate students should take full advantage of this time to learn new
skills, take courses, and go to seminars. It will be rare in the future
to have so much protected time to learn. That being said, try not to
overcommit yourself \-- your research and dissertation work are your
first priorities.

**Lab Staff:** I expect that you will accomplish the specific tasks
listed in your job posting and help train others as you become more
experienced. This is a critical part of your own training. Take
opportunities to develop your skills and goals. Be flexible and help
make sure that the lab is firing on all cylinders at all times. This may
include protocol work, returning orders, ordering new equipment, helping
out on specific projects, and leading projects if you have the desire to
do so. I will do my best to equitably distribute these tasks. The needs
of the lab will be constantly evolving as will your responsibilities,
opportunities and abilities. We will work together to define your
evolving role in the lab depending on your skills, preferences, and
talents.

**Interns and short-term visitors:** I want you to have a have a
positive learning experience in our lab. You will likely work under the
mentorship of a postdoc, graduate student or other staff in the lab. I
expect you to treat the internship very seriously, as you would with any
other important career opportunity or class. Be committed to your
project and the learning experience. Punctuality, actively learning and
completing experiments or analyses related to your project,
dependability, having an excellent work ethic and maintaining a high
quality of work are a must.

## Informal and formal mentorship and collaboration

Research Scientists, Postdocs and senior graduate students play an
important role in the education of more junior trainees (high school,
undergraduate, and newer graduate and technicians). This is a critical
part of your own training. You should be willing to help other members
of the lab and informally advise them on their work (e.g. show them how
you organize and strategize, give them advice on methods, share
protocols, chat with them about science, etc.). I hope that you will be
heavily involved in at least one project beyond your main project in
collaboration with another lab member. Experience in mentorship and
collaboration will be useful to you when moving forward in your career.
If you see a student/postdoc struggling and/or hear that they are having
personal trouble, please bring this to my attention right away.

More formal mentorship experiences can also be arranged. Undergraduate
or high school students often reach out asking for formal internships
with our group. You are welcome to mentor an intern (depending on your
workload) and design projects for them. Internships can take many forms.
The only requirement is that they must present their projects at least
once at lab meeting.

## Working with collaborators

Please let me know before you reach out to a potential collaborator and
CC me on key emails. When contacting collaborators, you are representing
the lab, so please be courteous and professional.

If someone is asking you to do something outside of the lab, tell them
to ask me first. This is not only to protect you, but also to protect
the lab and its intellectual mojo.

## Conferences and Presentations

I will provide financial assistance for you to attend about 1 big
conference per year and multiple small, local ones as finances permit
\-- we should strategize together about which meetings make the most
sense. Try to apply for travel awards. I expect you to practice talks in
front of a group at least once before presenting for wider audiences,
(including department seminars in your initial years). You represent the
lab and its members when you are at meetings inside and outside of the
institute. Make your fellow labmates proud with your excellence.

## Documentation of experiments and analysis

Be sure to document your wet-lab and dry-lab work so that another
scientist is able to reproduce your experiments/analyses. I prefer that
this documentation be digital, rather than analogue. Keeping a physical
lab notebook is great, but please transfer relevant information into a
digital format that can be easily shared with others. Documenting your
computational work (e.g. ipython notebooks or R markdown) on a Github
repository is a great way to keep track of your code with version
control.

## Sharing data and code

Writing code that is useable by others is hard, but I hope we can work
together to minimize duplication. Take the time to write basic
documentation and highlight potential pitfalls. The first attempt should
be to use, improve, and extend existing pipelines in the lab rather than
to create new pipelines. Barring any major legal hurdles, all code and
data involved in a peer-reviewed publication should be made freely
available to the research community and be directly referenced in the
publication itself (regardless of journal policies). Unpublished data
and code can be made available to lab members and collaborators, as
needed. I encourage you to make your code publicly available when
preprints are uploaded.

## Communicating your science to the public

I encourage people to write blog posts and popular science articles to
highlight your work to a broader audience. I would prefer that you share
these summaries with myself and other lab members for feedback and edits
prior to publication (always best to have another pair of eyes take a
look). Blog posts can be published on our [lab
website](https://subramanian.isbscience.org/), and we can also look for
opportunities to publish posts on other platforms. You should feel free
to talk with journalists about your work, but try to let me know
beforehand. Always be mindful that you are representing the lab. Be
engaging, but try not to over-hype your results.

## Project ownership when leaving lab

If you embark on a project of your own design when in the lab and want
to extend in this direction for your own academic career, please bring
this up with me in the early stages so that we can plan accordingly. I
will be as flexible as possible to ensure your ongoing success.

*This document draws heavily from lab orientation documents written by
the [Meren](https://merenlab.org/culture/),
[Shalek](https://shaleklab.com/diversity/expectations/),
[Leiberman](http://lieberman.science/) and
[Gibbons](https://github.com/Gibbons-Lab/manuals-and-policies#trainee-orientation-document)
labs, which I have used as inspiration. This is a living document that
is subject to change.*
